We are gonna talk about linting.
Who is pumped about linting?
Get out.
No, I'm just kidding.
I'm just kidding.
I got mixed feelings about linting.
You know, I've gone all over the map from on linting.
I used to be, and if you watch like,
completed intro to React V2,
like there comes in this like,
different Brian Holt character that's just like,
we're gonna lint the hell out of this project.
It's gonna look like one person wrote it.
And I was very much on that train of like,
let's let the tools control you.
And I've come all the way back the other way.
And like, if you like watch like React V7,
you get like this like hippie Brian,
it's like free love and no linting, right?
Where I'm just like,
write whatever code you feel like, dude, right?
And now I've come back more to like,
help me catch very common and very easy to miss bugs
and otherwise leave me the hell alone.
This actually just kind of applies
to my general thought process on building dev tools
of your developer has something in mind
that they wanna express in the code
and don't interrupt them unless they're actually going to,
unless you're helping them, right?
Like just getting someone to write code in a certain format
because you feel like it is adding more and more friction
and it's more distance between someone expressing
their idea and code.
And so that's why I'm much more careful these days
to be very light on the linting side.
And just like, if it's not important, don't do it, right?
Okay.
So we're gonna do prettier and people frequently ask me like,
what's the difference between linting and,
or ES lint and prettier?
ES lint is linting, obviously.
Linting is much more like semantics and syntax
and content focused where you're saying things like,
you have to alphabetize all of your imports,
which is like one of my very least favorite rules
that you can enforce in ES lint.
But it's things like that.
It's things where you're enforcing an opinion on someone.
Like it could be totally valid code, but you're saying,
I don't want you to do this.
One of the ones that I do find useful
is don't use any globals, right?
Because usually that means that like you misspelled
something so it's gonna reach for a global
as opposed to finding the one that you actually intended
to name it, right?
Prettier is just formatting.
It's just white space and new lines.
It does not enforce anything about the code.
It's just making sure that all of the white space
ends up in the right place.
That's all that prettier does.
There's some overlap that you can basically have ES lint
do some of what prettier does.
But if we're using both tools,
prettier is much better at formatting.
Leave the formatting to prettier.
Just have lint for all of the linting rules.
Yeah, Mark.
Have you heard of OX lint?
I have.
I might even mention it down here.
I do, look at that.
I think this is actually supposed to be,
is it supposed to be a zero?
No, okay, no, I was right, it is.
There's two projects to keep an eye on here,
is OX lint and Biome.
Biome used to be called Roam.
Ox lint, I think, is, this is all written in Rust.
And there's, I think, a couple of other projects.
They're so new, and they both really lean on ES lint anyway
for its rules, so, I'm interested.
I'm keeping an eye on it.
The creator of U and VEET, Evan U,
started a new company around OX lint and VEET
and all these tools, so I'm interested.
But they're still so new.
In this course, I'm trying to teach you
to be job-ready today with React,
and I'm not teaching you anything
that's that far out on the edge.
So, look at it, admire it, help,
but if you're going to your day job, ship ES lint.
It's just the safe choice right now,
and it's a perfectly good choice.
Like, it's just the safe choice right now,
and it's a perfectly good piece of software.
Okay.
Yeah, like, a good example here is, like,
you want to force people to never use with.
Like, if with is technically a valid JavaScript,
it was in ES 3, right?
But you never want to have with in a modern code base.
It would just make zero sense, right?
So, you can have ES lint say, like,
hey, you're using with.
No one uses with.
Please stop doing that.
Okay.
I'm going to have you install ES lint
and these tools at specific versions.
The reason why I'm going to have you do that now
and for the rest of the course is, like,
this course is a moment in time,
and they're definitely going to release new changes
and breaking changes, and I want people to stay
on tools that I have verified work together.
So, feel free to try and install later versions of ES lint
or React or whatever you want,
but just know when they release new minor
or major versions of these things,
probably going to break, right?
There is a massive difference between ES lint 8
and ES lint 9.
React V8 uses ES lint 8,
and I had to rewrite this entire portion of the course
because it totally changed, right?
So, go ahead and grab this.
I would just copy and paste it directly.
Go to your project,
and we're just going to install dash D, right,
for development, ES lint at 991,
ES lint config at 910,
and globals at 15.9.0.
Cool.
Again, you'll notice in our package.json,
we now have a bunch more dev dependencies.
Cool.
Now,
we're going to create a file in the root of our project.
It's going to be called eslint.config.mjs.
Now, every version of this course previously used
eslintrc.json that is no longer supported.
You actually have to do it this way now.
And you might be asking why is it mjs?
Because otherwise it assumes it is common js,
and we want to use esmodules.
So, the mjs here means that we're going to do
import and export as opposed to require, right?
So, that's why.
And we are going to start writing a little eslint config.
Import js from eslint slash js.
Import globals from globals.
And import prettier from eslint config prettier.
All right.
This is one of my favorite tricks
with just VS code and TypeScript in general.
This is not TypeScript, but I still love completions
when I'm writing code, right?
So, you can say at type
import eslint.lintr.config
dot lintr dot config array.
Now, you can see the two stars here in the slash.
This is a comment, right?
But this is letting VS code know this is this type.
Please give me all the type completions for this.
So, now I can say export default and give it an array.
And now I'm going to have proper type completions
inside of this.
This is totally optional.
You can totally lead this off.
If you're in something like Sublime or TextMate,
I don't know why you're on TextMate.
I have questions about that.
But you probably wouldn't use this.
This probably wouldn't be very helpful for you.
But for VS code specifically, this is really quite nice.
So, now I can say js.configs.
And I'm going to give it dot recommended.
So, we're going to export this array of rules for eslint.
This is their new, what, flat configuration style.
I find it configuration, I find it confusing.
But this is the way you have to do it now.
So, we're stuck with it.
So, you export multiple different configurations
and it kind of builds one upon the other.
So, this will be executed, then the second one,
then the third one, then the fourth one.
So, the lower it is in the list, the last it is executed.
So, one thing is this prettier config always has to be last.
Just keep that in mind.
Just drill it into your brain.
The prettier config always has to be last.
Why is that?
The prettier config, all it does is turn off stuff.
It doesn't add anything new.
All it says is don't check formatting,
don't check this kind of formatting,
don't check new lines, don't check any of that kind of stuff.
All this does is turn off formatting, which is useful.
Otherwise, you get eslint yelling at you.
It's like, hey, you didn't format this correctly
and this will prevent it from yelling at you
for stuff that doesn't matter.
Okay, we're going to put our configuration
here in the middle.
So, js.configs.recommended.
This is just a very small subset
of non-controversial eslint rules, right?
They're just purely value add.
I've never had a problem with the recommended one.
If you want everything that eslint can check for,
you can do .all, but you are a glutton for punishment
if you're doing that.
It's going to check things that you don't care about,
I promise.
So, you know what?
Again, I'm not your mom, do whatever you want.
But I am not going to put that in there
because it annoys me so quickly.
Okay, we're going to tell it what files.
So, okay, again, this type thing right here,
the reason why it knows here this files
is from that comment up there, right?
Which I find extremely useful.
Okay, and I'm going to tell it to check for everything
to do with .js files.
And if you want to get ahead of the game here,
we're eventually going to be doing JSX.
So, you might as well just check that in there as well.
If you were doing TS and TSX,
you'd put that in here as well, right?
So, okay, language options.
We are going to say, here's the globals
that we want you to check or be aware of.
We're going to do globals.browser and globals.node.
Why this?
It's so that when we go into like here,
we can say things like window or document, right?
Things that are globals in those environments.
If you don't import and add those,
it's going to be like,
hey, I don't know what document is, right?
So, that's what globals is.
Sorry, back in here.
This is just the spread operator, right?
So, we could do like some sort of like
object.assign here, right?
But we can just use the spread operator.
This is a little bit cleaner.
This is just going to be the union of browser
and node here, right?
As one object.
That's all the globals that we need for this project.
Parser options.
ECMA features.
And we need JSX.
And I think that should be good for us for a little bit.
This is just going to allow us to use JSX,
which we're about to do, right?
Without this, ESLint's still going to be okay
because it can parse JSX,
but it's not going to understand how React is working
and how it's importing things correctly.
So, this becomes important.
All right.
So, again, let's go back into our package.json
and make it so that this can run ESLint.
We're going to say lint.
And now we can just say ESLint.
You used to have to put like this long string
associated with it,
but now it reads its config properly
and you don't have to do that.
So, now if we come in here and we say npm run lint,
you'll see a bunch of these errors, right?
And my notes here say that this should fix it
if you say npm, or npm, wow.
Yeah, something on the mind, I guess.
Run lint dash dash dash dash fix.
So, this dash dash just means like,
hey, I want to pass this into ESLint.
So, this will actually end up running ESLint dash dash fix.
If you don't put this dash dash in there,
it's going to apply a dash dash fix.
It's going to apply a dash dash fix to npm,
which doesn't make any sense, right?
So, that's why you need the dash dash.
Yeah, I didn't think so.
So, what's something that it could fix automatically?
I don't remember.
But fix, some of your linting errors
can be fixed automatically,
like it contains transformations
that'll just fix some of these things for you.
We have nothing to fix right now,
so that doesn't really help us that much.
But that's kind of a fun trick to do sometimes.
Another one, if you're debugging this,
is debug is super useful.
You get a lot of output of like ESLint working.
It's telling you everything that it's parsing.
It's telling you all the errors that it's found.
It's telling you all the rules that it's loading.
So, you can see these are all of the checks
that it's running, which is kind of cool.
Yeah, so I mean, here's a good one.
No debugger.
Let's say, I don't know if you've ever used this before.
VS Code has a very useful debugger built into it.
We won't be using it today,
but like I use it quite a bit for my node projects.
And so, now I think if I say npm run lint,
it should give me an error around not using the debugger.
Yeah, unexpected debugger statement.
It'll catch things like that.
You want this to error, right?
Because I'm gonna put this in there,
and I want this to stay here while I'm using it,
but I don't ever wanna shift this to production, right?
So, that's something that lint will catch for you.
Oh yeah, let's install the extension.
There is an ESLint extension.
I will say that of the common extensions
that I recommend people install,
this one is the most finicky sometimes, the ESLint one.
It should look like this.
It's official from Microsoft.
It just gets bent out of shape sometimes,
and so if you find that it's highlighting something
that it should or not highlighting something
that it should, a good restart will usually fix
a lot of stuff, either of VS Code itself
or the whole computer.
I don't know.
Definitely one of the ones that annoys me the most,
and sometimes I just end up disabling it
because it's so annoying.
The purpose of the npm script you wrote
is only if somebody doesn't have prettier installed
in their editor, correct?
It's amongst the reasons that I would do it.
Probably the chief reason is so that I can now
run it in CI, CD, right?
So, I can run it as like a GitHub action,
so then it won't check in my, or it won't deploy my code
if it's like failing lint or failing prettier.
That's probably the biggest reason
because almost everyone that I work with
or have worked with has some version of prettier
or lint built into their editor
and they just fix it on the fly,
and there's a few holdouts that'll just run it
right before they commit, right?
So, those are the two chief reasons I do it.